We want to find out at which locations in a certain area evoke positive, neutral or negative emotions in dogs. We train a DNN to classify various locations according to the emotional expression of dogs.
When a dog shows positive emotions at location A, e.g. beaches, the DNN is trained to classify beaches as positive. When a dog shows neutral emotions at location B, e.g. shopping malls, the DNN is trained to classify shopping malls as neutral. When a dog shows negative emotions at location C, e.g. train stations, the DNN is trained to classify train stations as negative. 
After training we can show the DNN a beach and it will correctly classify it as positive, but we can also show it a forest, a location it hasen't seen before, and it will correctly classify it as positive as well. So the DNN learned to generalize that locations in nature evoke positive emotions in dogs, whereas other locations that it hasn't seen before like subway stations evoke negative emotions.
Interestingly, the DNN classifies gas stations as positive. 
Based on the DNN classifications what can we understand of the target phenomenon, in this case emotional expression in dogs?
What does the classification "beach positive" tell us that we don't know already?
Maybe some type of beach was classified negative. What does this tell us? It tells us that it is possible that at this particular type of beach dogs do not express positive emotions. But it doesn't tell us why this is the case or if it is actually the case. We have to take the DNN classification and compare it to some observation that we make of dogs at this particular type of beach. We observe that dogs at that particular type of beach show no happy signs, but negative signs of emotion. Now, we know that this particular type of beach does not evoke happy emotions in dogs. 
But this understanding has nothing to do with the DNN anymore. The DNN gave us a clue where to look, but it didn't give us the kind of understanding that we then gained through making the observation. Probably the observation gave us more than a confirmation of the classification, we observed that at this particular type of beach many dead jellyfish are washed up there and dogs seem to be irritated by that. Now we know what might be a cause for the dogs negative emotion at that particular type of beach. 
Sullivan would say the link uncertainty between the DNN and the target (dog emotions in relation to location) decreased.
The next time the DNN classifies some other type of beach as negative, we understand what a possible cause for the dogs negative emotions might be. Maybe there also dead jellyfish or some other dead critter washed up there. But we do not gain this understanding of possible causes from the DNN. We gained it through our previous observations. Does this DNN answer questions what the possible cause for the negative dog emotions at this particular type of beach is? Not really. It gives us a classification that we can compare with a previous observation or with a new observation that we are making. 
Based on the DNN classification can we understand why dogs express positive emotions at beaches or gas stations?

